#Count;Type;Name;Country
x1;MISSION;Kongo;portugal
x1;MISSION;Ka'aba (ﺔﺒﻌﻜﻟﺍ);turquie
x4;MISSION;Mission;france
x2;MISSION;Mission;frahuguenots
x2;MISSION;Mission;angleterre
x15;MISSION;Misión;espagne
x3;MISSION;Missão;portugal
#Count;Type;Country
x20;TRADEFLEET;angleterre
x18;TRADEFLEET;france
x13;TRADEFLEET;espagne
x2;TRADEFLEET;habsbourg
x20;TRADEFLEET;hollande
x6;TRADEFLEET;pologne
x8;TRADEFLEET;portugal
x1;TRADEFLEET;prusse
x7;TRADEFLEET;russie
x10;TRADEFLEET;suede
x9;TRADEFLEET;turquie
x5;TRADEFLEET;venise
x4;TRADEFLEET;danemark
x3;TRADEFLEET;genes
x2;TRADEFLEET;hanse
x1;TRADEFLEET;ecosse
x1;TRADEFLEET;usa
x1;TRADEFLEET;aden
x1;TRADEFLEET;oman
x2;TRADEFLEET;chine
x2;TRADEFLEET;gujarat
x1;TRADEFLEET;japon
x1;TRADEFLEET;mogol
x4;ROTWTREATY;angleterre
x4;ROTWTREATY;france
x2;ROTWTREATY;espagne
x4;ROTWTREATY;hollande
x2;ROTWTREATY;pologne
x6;ROTWTREATY;portugal
x2;ROTWTREATY;russie
x2;ROTWTREATY;suede
x3;ROTWTREATY;turquie
x2;ROTWTREATY;venise
#Count;Type;Country;Name
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Albany
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Barbados
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Carolina
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Connecticut
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Georgia
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Kingston
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Maine
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Maryland
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Massachussets
x1;COLONY;angleterre;New England
x1;COLONY;angleterre;New Jersey
x1;COLONY;angleterre;New York
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Nova Scotia
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Rhode Island
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Saint-John
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Saint-Thomas
x1;COLONY;angleterre;Virginia
x1;COLONY;france;Louisbourg
x1;COLONY;france;Cap-Breton
x1;COLONY;france;Cayenne
x1;COLONY;france;Guadeloupe
x1;COLONY;france;Île Bourbon
x1;COLONY;france;Île de France
x1;COLONY;france;Louisiane
x1;COLONY;france;Montréal
x1;COLONY;france;Nouvelle-Orléans
x1;COLONY;france;Plaisance
x1;COLONY;france;Port-Royal
x1;COLONY;france;Québec
x1;COLONY;france;Saint-Domingue
x1;COLONY;france;Saint-Louis
x1;COLONY;france;Saint-Pierre
x1;COLONY;espagne;Acapulco
x1;COLONY;espagne;Asunción
x1;COLONY;espagne;Buenos Aires
x1;COLONY;espagne;Baracoa
x1;COLONY;espagne;Bogotá
x1;COLONY;espagne;Cartagena
x1;COLONY;espagne;Caracas
x1;COLONY;espagne;Cusco
x1;COLONY;espagne;Durango
x1;COLONY;espagne;El Paso
x1;COLONY;espagne;Guatemala
x1;COLONY;espagne;Hispaniola
x1;COLONY;espagne;La Habana
x1;COLONY;espagne;La Paz
x1;COLONY;espagne;León
x1;COLONY;espagne;Lima
x1;COLONY;espagne;Manila
x1;COLONY;espagne;México
x1;COLONY;espagne;Mérida
x1;COLONY;espagne;Montevideo
x1;COLONY;espagne;Panamá
x1;COLONY;espagne;Puerto Rico
x1;COLONY;espagne;Potosí
x1;COLONY;espagne;Quito
x1;COLONY;espagne;San Diego
x1;COLONY;espagne;San Agustín
x1;COLONY;espagne;San Luis
x1;COLONY;espagne;Santa Fé
x1;COLONY;espagne;Santiago
x1;COLONY;espagne;Trinidad
x1;COLONY;espagne;Vera Cruz
x1;COLONY;espagne;Venezuela
x1;COLONY;hollande;Kaapstad
x1;COLONY;hollande;Batavia
x1;COLONY;hollande;Galle
x1;COLONY;hollande;Malakka
x1;COLONY;hollande;Curaçao
x1;COLONY;hollande;Tobago
x1;COLONY;hollande;Paramaribo
x1;COLONY;hollande;Sint Marteen
x1;COLONY;hollande;Nieuw Amsterdam
x1;COLONY;hollande;Nieuw Oranje
x1;COLONY;pologne;Nowy Polska
x1;COLONY;pologne;Новыи України
x1;COLONY;pologne;Nauja Lietuva
x1;COLONY;pologne;Nauja Vilnius
x1;COLONY;pologne;Nowy Mazowie
x1;COLONY;portugal;Rio de Janeiro
x1;COLONY;portugal;Belém
x1;COLONY;portugal;Fortaleza
x1;COLONY;portugal;São Salvador
x1;COLONY;portugal;Pernambuco
x1;COLONY;portugal;São Paulo
x1;COLONY;portugal;Goa
x1;COLONY;portugal;Praia
x1;COLONY;portugal;São Jose
x1;COLONY;portugal;Ouro Preto
x1;COLONY;portugal;Maranhão
x1;COLONY;portugal;Porto Alegre
x1;COLONY;prusse;Friedrichsburg
x1;COLONY;prusse;Wilhelmsburg
x1;COLONY;russie;Tobolsk
x1;COLONY;russie;Orenburg
x1;COLONY;russie;Perm
x1;COLONY;russie;Omsk
x1;COLONY;russie;Novosibirsk
x1;COLONY;russie;Krasnoiarsk
x1;COLONY;russie;Bratsk
x1;COLONY;russie;Irkutsk
x1;COLONY;russie;Yakutsk
x1;COLONY;russie;Vladivostock
x1;COLONY;russie;Khabarovsk
x1;COLONY;suede;Nya Sverige
x1;COLONY;suede;Nya Göteborg
x1;COLONY;suede;Nya Vasa
x1;COLONY;suede;Nya Korsholm
x1;COLONY;turquie;Makkah
x1;COLONY;turquie;ar-Riyād
x1;COLONY;turquie;Kuzey Kapi
x1;COLONY;turquie;Doğu Kapi
x1;COLONY;turquie;Güney Kapi
x1;COLONY;turquie;Batı Kapi
x1;COLONY;venise;Venezuela
x1;COLONY;usa;Carolina
x1;COLONY;usa;Connecticut
x1;COLONY;usa;Georgia
x1;COLONY;usa;Kentucky
x1;COLONY;usa;Louisiana
x1;COLONY;usa;Massachussets
x1;COLONY;usa;New Jersey
x1;COLONY;usa;New York
x1;COLONY;usa;Ohio
x1;COLONY;usa;Pennsylvania
x1;COLONY;usa;Rhode Island
x1;COLONY;usa;Vermont
x1;COLONY;usa;Virginia
x1;COLONY;aden;Aden
x1;COLONY;oman;Oman
x1;COLONY;danemark;Godthåb
x1;COLONY;danemark;Reykjavík
x1;TRADINGPOST;angleterre;Bombay
x1;TRADINGPOST;angleterre;Fort Georges
x1;TRADINGPOST;angleterre;Fort Henry
x1;TRADINGPOST;angleterre;Fort Jackson
x1;TRADINGPOST;angleterre;Fort James
x1;TRADINGPOST;angleterre;Fort Nelson
x1;TRADINGPOST;angleterre;Fort Pitt
x1;TRADINGPOST;angleterre;Fort William
x1;TRADINGPOST;angleterre;Freetown
x1;TRADINGPOST;angleterre;Madras
x1;TRADINGPOST;france;Chandernagor
x1;TRADINGPOST;france;Cochin
x1;TRADINGPOST;france;Fort Dauphin
x1;TRADINGPOST;france;Fort Détroit
x1;TRADINGPOST;france;Fort Duquesne
x1;TRADINGPOST;france;Karikal
x1;TRADINGPOST;france;Pondichéry
x1;TRADINGPOST;france;Sainte-Marie
x1;TRADINGPOST;france;Saint-Jean
x1;TRADINGPOST;france;Yanaon
x1;TRADINGPOST;espagne;Cebú
x1;TRADINGPOST;espagne;Rio Muni
x1;TRADINGPOST;espagne;Tidore
x1;TRADINGPOST;espagne;San Miguel
x1;TRADINGPOST;espagne;San Francisco
x1;TRADINGPOST;espagne;Santa Maria
x1;TRADINGPOST;espagne;Annobón
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Gamron
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Dejima
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Malemba
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Pulicat
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Fort Speelwijk
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Fort Conraadsburg
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Fort Maurits
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Fort Nassau
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Fort Oranje
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Fort Zeelandia
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Fort Amsterdam
x1;TRADINGPOST;hollande;Fort Gustavius
x1;TRADINGPOST;pologne;Twierdza Zygmunt
x1;TRADINGPOST;pologne;Twierdza Stanisław
x1;TRADINGPOST;pologne;Twierdza Wenceslas
x1;TRADINGPOST;pologne;Twierdza Jan
x1;TRADINGPOST;pologne;Twierdza Kazimierz
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;Ternate
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;Malacca
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;Colombo
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;São Tomé
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;Macao
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;Nagasaki
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;Moçambique
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;Diu
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;Cochin
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;Elmina
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;Coromandel
x1;TRADINGPOST;portugal;Solor
x1;TRADINGPOST;prusse;Fort Dorothea
x1;TRADINGPOST;prusse;Fort Sophie-Louise
x1;TRADINGPOST;russie;Petropavlovsk
x1;TRADINGPOST;russie;Sitka
x1;TRADINGPOST;russie;Chita
x1;TRADINGPOST;russie;Okhotsk
x1;TRADINGPOST;russie;Tashkent
x1;TRADINGPOST;suede;Carlsborg
x1;TRADINGPOST;suede;Fort Upland
x1;TRADINGPOST;suede;Fort Mölndal
x1;TRADINGPOST;suede;Wasaborg
x1;TRADINGPOST;turquie;Kale Süleyman
x1;TRADINGPOST;turquie;Kale Mehmed
x1;TRADINGPOST;turquie;Kale Murad
x1;TRADINGPOST;turquie;Kale Osman
x1;TRADINGPOST;turquie;Kale Bayezıd
x1;TRADINGPOST;turquie;Kale İbrahım
x1;TRADINGPOST;venise;San Marco
x1;TRADINGPOST;venise;San Polo
x1;TRADINGPOST;venise;Sant-Elena
x1;TRADINGPOST;venise;San Pietro
x1;TRADINGPOST;usa;Fort Monroe
x1;TRADINGPOST;usa;Fort Washington
x1;TRADINGPOST;usa;Mississippi
x1;TRADINGPOST;aceh;Kutaraja
x1;TRADINGPOST;aden;Fort Hassan
x1;TRADINGPOST;oman;Fort Hussein
x1;TRADINGPOST;oman;Standing on Zanzibar
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Guǎngzhōu
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Fuzhōu
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Hángzhōu
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Shànghǎi
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Qīngdǎo
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Běijīng
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Dalian
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Táiwān
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Jade Palace
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Copper Palace
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Gold Palace
x1;TRADINGPOST;chine;Silver Palace
x1;TRADINGPOST;gujarat;Diu
x1;TRADINGPOST;gujarat;Goā
x1;TRADINGPOST;gujarat;Bijapur
x1;TRADINGPOST;gujarat;Koḻikoṭ
x1;TRADINGPOST;gujarat;Kochi
x1;TRADINGPOST;gujarat;Ormus
x1;TRADINGPOST;gujarat;Mombasa
x1;TRADINGPOST;gujarat;Sofala
x1;TRADINGPOST;gujarat;Melaka
x1;TRADINGPOST;gujarat;Terengganu
x1;TRADINGPOST;japon;Seoul
x1;TRADINGPOST;japon;P'yǒngyang
x1;TRADINGPOST;japon;Táiwān
x1;TRADINGPOST;siberie;Kashlyk
x1;TRADINGPOST;danemark;Vinland
##French (huguenot) Florida
x1;ESTABLISHMENT;neutre;Fort Caroline
##Huguenots in Brazil
x1;ESTABLISHMENT;neutre;France Antarctique
##German in Venezuela
x1;ESTABLISHMENT;neutre;Klein-Venedig
##Denmark in India
x1;ESTABLISHMENT;neutre;Tranquebar
x1;ESTABLISHMENT;neutre;Serampore
##Darien expedition by Scotland (Nova Scotia is already an ANG COL)
x1;ESTABLISHMENT;neutre;Darién
##Virigin Islands, Danish but could have been anything
x1;ESTABLISHMENT;neutre;St-Thomas
#Count;Type;Country;Subtype;Percentage
x1;MANUFACTURE;angleterre;art;12
x1;MANUFACTURE;angleterre;bois;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;angleterre;cereales;4
x3;MANUFACTURE;angleterre;instruments;9
x3;MANUFACTURE;angleterre;metal;7
x2;MANUFACTURE;angleterre;peche;4
x2;MANUFACTURE;angleterre;tissus;6
x2;MANUFACTURE;espagne;art;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;espagne;instruments;5
x2;MANUFACTURE;espagne;metal;6
x1;MANUFACTURE;espagne;peche;3
x1;MANUFACTURE;espagne;sel;4
x1;MANUFACTURE;espagne;tissus;8
x1;MANUFACTURE;espagne;vin;4
x3;MANUFACTURE;france;art;12
x1;MANUFACTURE;france;bois;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;france;cereales;4
x2;MANUFACTURE;france;instruments;7
x2;MANUFACTURE;france;metal;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;france;peche;4
x1;MANUFACTURE;france;sel;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;france;tissus;5
x2;MANUFACTURE;france;vin;4
x1;MANUFACTURE;habsbourg;art;10
x1;MANUFACTURE;habsbourg;cereales;4
x1;MANUFACTURE;habsbourg;instruments;5
x2;MANUFACTURE;habsbourg;metal;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;habsbourg;sel;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;habsbourg;tissus;5
x2;MANUFACTURE;hollande;art;10
x2;MANUFACTURE;hollande;instruments;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;hollande;metal;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;hollande;peche;4
x2;MANUFACTURE;hollande;tissus;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;pologne;art;7
x2;MANUFACTURE;pologne;bois;4
x2;MANUFACTURE;pologne;cereales;3
x1;MANUFACTURE;pologne;instruments;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;pologne;metal;6
x1;MANUFACTURE;pologne;sel;4
x1;MANUFACTURE;portugal;art;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;portugal;instruments;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;portugal;metal;6
x1;MANUFACTURE;portugal;peche;3
x1;MANUFACTURE;portugal;sel;4
x1;MANUFACTURE;portugal;vin;4
x1;MANUFACTURE;prusse;art;10
x1;MANUFACTURE;prusse;bois;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;prusse;instruments;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;prusse;metal;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;prusse;metalsilesie;10
x1;MANUFACTURE;prusse;tissus;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;russie;art;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;russie;bois;4
x1;MANUFACTURE;russie;cereales;3
x1;MANUFACTURE;russie;instruments;5
x2;MANUFACTURE;russie;metal;6
x2;MANUFACTURE;russie;tissus;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;suede;art;10
x2;MANUFACTURE;suede;bois;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;suede;instruments;9
x1;MANUFACTURE;suede;metal;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;suede;metalsilesie;10
x1;MANUFACTURE;suede;peche;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;suede;tissus;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;turquie;art;10
x1;MANUFACTURE;turquie;bois;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;turquie;cereales;4
x1;MANUFACTURE;turquie;instruments;7
x2;MANUFACTURE;turquie;metal;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;turquie;sel;5
x2;MANUFACTURE;turquie;tissus;5
x2;MANUFACTURE;venise;art;10
x1;MANUFACTURE;venise;instruments;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;venise;metal;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;venise;selvenise;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;venise;vin;4
x1;MANUFACTURE;danemark;instruments;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;danemark;peche;7
x1;MANUFACTURE;danemark;art;5
x1;MANUFACTURE;danemark;metal;4
